# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Server crashing ->** Sometimes the server crashes which results in clients no longer being able to communicate and players are unable to progress further through the game. If this is a regular occurrence it will likely result in players quitting the game permanently out of frustration.
* **Length of gameplay ->** There are only four levels which means players will likely get bored after a while playing the same levels. In future development, I would like to add cups that each consist of four levels with different themes like in Mario Kart.
* **World generation ->** The worlds generated are currently quite simple, consisting of a flat terrain with a straight road and surrounding props. This could get quite boring for the player. I would like to add more obstacles on the road, terrain such as mountains and caves, and to add more roads with junctions that the player has to turn onto.
* **Cross-platform support ->** My game currently only supports keyboard and mouse for controls. This limits the reach of my game as mobile players and those on a console like Xbox or who prefer to use a controller are unable to play.
* **Controls ->** Many testers complained the controls were not obvious and suggested alternatives. A tutorial accessible from the title screen that tells the player how to play could solve this.

## Maintenance

### Short-term maintenance

Short-term maintenance would mostly involve addressing the more significant limitations especially in regards to stability and crashing. There is no point adding new features to the game if the server randomly crashes. Some of these limitations can be quickly fixed, such as controls which would just involve adding a new scene with instructions on how to move the player.

### Long-term maintenance

In the long term, maintenance could include introducing cups that group levels together which makes the game more engaging for the player. Additionally, I could implement more power-ups to both make the game more challenging and assist the player in certain circumstances.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

* Player going out of camera: This was reported by a tester in [Usability Testing](../3-testing/3.2-usability-testing.md) despite my attempt in Cycle 23 to prevent the player going off the road. It could be fixed by adding an invisible solid sprite to the far left and far right of the screen which prevents the player or other cars from moving outside the view of the camera.&#x20;
* Trees have no collision: The was also reported in Usability Testing. This can easily be fixed by giving the trees and other props `body({ isStatic: true })` property, which makes them solid but unaffected by gravity.
* Firefox performance: In [Testing for Function and Robustness](../3-testing/3.1-robustness.md), I noticed lag on Firefox compared to Chrome and Microsoft Edge. Things would happen much slower. I think the best way to fix this would be by limiting the size of the canvas if the player is detected to be running Firefox so less blocks are rendered.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* **Server crashing ->** I think the best way to go about fixing this is by sending less requests so not to run the risk of overwhelming the server. Presently, the game continually broadcasts updates on the player's position and angle, even if they haven't moved, so it would be better to only send an update if the player has moved since last time. Additionally, I might consider investing in dedicated server hosting for my game, which has more memory and CPU power and might be able to handle more at one time compared to the Raspberry Pi I used to host my game. Furthermore, if the server does sometimes crash despite my best efforts, the client side of the game should be able to figure out if this is the case and inform the players to avoid confusion.
* **Length of gameplay ->** There are only four levels which will eventually mean players will get bored and stop playing. I would add cups comprised of four levels each which can be selected by the creator of the room via a new scene. The cups would have special themes and new ones regularly released.
* **World generation ->** In future development, I would implement more obstacles that are randomly placed on the road, and make the terrain more diverse for example by adding mountains that slow down the player as they move up due to friction. Additionally, it would be good to add more roads with junctions to turn rather than just a single straight road, as well as roundabouts.
* **Cross-platform support ->** To broaden the reach of the game beyond PC players, support for controllers such as Xbox and Playstation should be implemented and an app allowing quick access to the game should be released in the stores of these consoles. This is entirely possible now Kaboom.js supports the JavaScript Gamepad API. Additionally, if a touchscreen is detected on-screen controls could be drawn so users on phones and tablets can play.
* **Controls ->** The two complaints about controls were they weren't obvious and that they should have been different, for example the arrow keys. The former can be solved by adding a new scene accessible from the title that briefly explains the controls. The latter could be solved by adding a settings screen where the player can set their own controls for each function.
