# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

Find success criteria that relate to function and robustness

In my [Success Criteria](../1-analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md), there are five points relating to function and robustness.

| Criterion                     | Description                                                                                                  |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 8 - Broadcast updates to room | Were other players' actions broadcast and displayed on your screen (e.g. movement)?                          |
| 9 - Registration              | How easy was the process of creating an account?                                                             |
| 10 - Login                    | How easy was the process of logging in to your account?                                                      |
| 26 - Game should run smoothly | How was the performance of the game?                                                                         |
| 28 - Server should not crash  | Did the server crash? If you try to load the page again and a Cloudflare error shows, that means it crashed. |

### Criterion 8 - Broadcast updates to room

The aim of testing criterion 8 is to make sure all updates, such as player movement or activating a power-up, are broadcasted and displayed to all players in the room, and that other players can be affected by them.

Since my game is multiplayer, to test it I used a variety of computers including old laptops and school computers. I used three different browsers in testing: Firefox, Chrome, and Microsoft Edge to make sure it ran well on the most popular desktop browsers I had access to.&#x20;

I noticed when playing on some school computers and older laptops updates would take longer to be received, sometimes they would not appear at all, which is bad because a key feature of multiplayer games is to be able to see what other players are doing in real time. However, it is to be expected of older computers with less resources and slower networking capabilities for there to be some delays and lag in receiving updates.

### Criterion 9 - Registration

The aim of testing criterion 9 is to ensure new players can easily create an account. This is important as my game requires users login to play, and if they do not already have an account they will need to create one.

I tried registering accounts across different computers and there were no issues. To check validation, I tried registering accounts under usernames I knew were already taken, which resulted in an error being displayed as intended.

### Criterion 10 - Login

The aim of testing criterion 10 is to ensure players can login to their account with the right credentials. This is important for the same reason as registration, as players need a way of signing into their account to play the game.

I tried logging into accounts on different computers and there were no issues. To check validation, I tried logging into accounts with the wrong password as well as nonexistent usernames, which resulted in an error message to the user.

### Criterion 26 - Game should run smoothly

I noticed when playing on some school computers and older laptops the game would take significantly longer to load and render the world after starting. The countdown took longer to appear for some clients, putting them at a disadvantage as the faster computers could start moving before them. This is expected of older computers which have less processing power and often slower networking hardware, however I could have implemented a check to make sure all clients were ready before starting the countdown to ensure fairness.

Additionally, I noticed car movement was somewhat slower on Firefox compared to Chrome and Microsoft Edge. While, as shown in [Hardware and Software Requirements](../1-analysis/1.6-hardware-and-software-requirements.md), Firefox only accounts for under 3% of the web browser market share as of 2022, the statistic accounts for mobile browsers like Samsung Internet who won't be playing my game, and many do still use Firefox. This could put them at a disadvantage if they are playing with Chrome or Edge users.

### Criterion 28 - Server should not crash

To host my game, I used Cloudflare tunnel with a Raspberry Pi 4 and a domain I bought for a low price. This ensures players can access it on different networks to the computer that is hosting it.
