# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction means the removal of unnecessary information in a problem to focus only on the important information. It is useful in programming because it helps avoid over-complicating the solution and allows the developer to focus on the high-level design of the program.

My game will use abstraction in the following ways:

* Monsters detecting the player: When a player comes within range of a monster, my game will imagine the direct path between the two as the hypotenuse of a triangle and use cos and sin trigonometric functions to work out the change in X and Y. This algorithm will only take necessary information to create intelligent monsters to make the game more challenging for the player.
* Movement: The player will continually move by the speed which can be increased by accelerating with the W key and decreased by decelerating with the S key. The car will also be able to turn left and right through A and D keys. The road will apply a small amount of friction so the car becomes still again if the player stops interacting. I will only include the necessary properties to create a realistic feal for driving.
* World rendering: The world will include the race track, chests, and surroundings and so this will take up a lot of resources if it is all rendered at once and lead to a lot of lag. Therefore, my game will constantly delete all blocks and render those only within the range of the camera.

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead is important in programming because it provides the developer or developers with a clear idea of what they want the final product to look like. I will think about what tasks I must carry out and in what order I will perform them for my final solution to look how I envision it.&#x20;

For example, I know my game will be written in JavaScript which means it will be played in the web browser, and I will use the Kaboom.js game engine to simplify the game development. Additionally, my game will be a multiplayer racing game with four levels with different blocks and props, with a leaderboard shown between levels and at the end to track player progress.&#x20;

Furthermore, I want to allow each player to have their own unique identity so I will require players sign up for an account in order to play. I have decided to store user information using the SQLite database engine, which I see as ideal because it is free, self-contained, and contains all the features of the popular SQL engine, and is capable of storing necessary data for my login system.

Finally, Node.js will host my database, handle POST requests for the login system, and facilitate multiplayer between clients. Node.js is a server-based runtime so I will need to find a suitable and cheap provider to host my game, and a domain name so people can access it from their browser.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposition is the process of breaking down a complex problem into smaller, more manageable problems. It is useful because it simplifies development of the solution and makes it easier to apply changes. I will focus on one section of my game at a time and finish a section before starting on another.&#x20;

My game will use decomposition and procedural thinking by bundling different sprites into their own function, allowing me to call them from within the code without writing them out all again. This means if a bug arises I know where to find the problematic code and only have to fix it once instead of several times.&#x20;

Additionally, my login function will include registration, login, and acquiring the username of a signed in player. I will simplify these by determining what order each process must go through and implementing each task individually.

## Thinking Logically

My game should allow the player to make decisions when multiple options are presented to them. To do this, it must be prepared for any possible decisions the player might make when playing.

### Title screen

* The player may not be signed in. The game must check for this before loading any screen. If the player is not signed in, they will be shown a separate screen informing them they must do so to play the game, along with a button that takes them to the sign in page.

### Login/Sign Up screen

* The player may enter invalid credentials when logging in, so the login should be prepared for this happening and be able to inform the player through a means in which they understand.
* The player may choose a username that has already been taken when signing up, so the registration should be prepared for this possibility and inform the player.&#x20;
* The player may attempt to enter in a password which is too few characters. If this happens, the registration should refuse to proceed until the player has corrected this.

### Gameplay

* My game will continually check for keyboard input from the player and carry out corresponding functionality, such as to move forward or turn left. It should be prepared the player will press keys that do not have any action and ignore them.
* Chests containing power-ups will be randomly scattered across the map. The player can only store one power-up at a time. The game must be prepared for the player to collide with a chest while already having a power-up waiting to be used. If this happens, it must keep the existing power-up in the box in the top left corner.
* The player may drive off the road and onto the environment section of the map. This could cause problems if they drive off the screen completely and cannot see their car as they will have a harder time getting back onto the screen. To solve this, the game must continually check if the player tries to go off the road and stop them moving that way.

### Multiplayer

* My game should be prepared for the possibility of a player disconnecting during the waiting stage or during gameplay itself. If this happens, the quitting player's name should be removed from the list of players if on the waiting screen or their car removed if in the gameplay stage.
* Online multiplayer games are often impacted by lag. Therefore, when a player moves, they should broadcast their new position and angle to all other players in the room, for whom the game will set that player's car to those properties so that each player's car position is always consistent for all players.

## Thinking Concurrently

My game will need to perform multiple tasks simultaneously by breaking them down into sub-tasks. Here are some examples:

* Enemies must continually check if the player is within a specific range of them even while other tasks are taking place, such as checking for keys or the player activating their selected weapon.&#x20;
* In multiplayer mode, the Node.js server must be able to handle all requests from different sessions at once. For example, two multiplayer sessions could be running at the same time, so the server should be able to distinguish between the two sessions in its responses to prevent confusion.
