# 1.5 Success Criteria

## Mechanics

<table><thead><tr><th width="105">Ref. No.</th><th width="207">Criterion</th><th width="222">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Use WSAD keys to move/turn the player.</td><td>A large portion of games played with a keyboard use these controls, so most gamers will be familiar with them.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls-for-movement">Controls for movement</a></li></ul><p></p></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Constantly reposition the game camera so that the race track is always in the centre and the player's car is near the bottom of the screen.</td><td>This style of game, known as a side-scroller, is especially common in 2D platform games. The player will always see their car in the same part of the screen reducing the amount of times they move their eyes to keep up with their car.</td><td><p></p><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#side-scrolling">Side-scrolling</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>When the player collides with a chest, randomly select which power-up they receive.</td><td>These power-ups can be helpful to the player in certain scenarios, such as if they are far behind the other players (potion of speed), if they are low health (regeneration), or if they want to increase their luck at retaining their lead (TNT, monster army).</td><td><p></p><ul><li></li></ul><p></p></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Players should take damage on being hit by another player's fireball.</td><td>This increases the competitive aspect of my game as players can hurt one another in-game. Fireball attacks are ranged meaning they can do so from a distance.</td><td><ul><li></li></ul><p></p></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Fireballs should destroy once they have gone a certain distance without hitting another player.</td><td>A lot of fireballs moving at once would likely cause lag.  Destroying them once they have gone a certain distance without hitting anything would reduce this. Also a lot of these fireballs will never hit a player because they have gone off screen. </td><td><ul><li></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>Continually destroy all blocks and render only the blocks on the level map that are within the game camera co-ordinates.</td><td>Rendering the entire map is going to be a resource-heavy process and very likely lead to lag. It's also unnecessary as the player will never see all of the map at once. Therefore, a good solution is only to render the blocks that are within the game camera co-ordinates.</td><td><ul><li></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>When a player uses a fireball power-up, first give them a choice of what direction they want to fire it.</td><td>If another player is close in front, the player should be able to choose to shoot the fireball in their direction. This puts pressure on the other player to be on alert.</td><td><ul><li></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Render each of the player's health points as a red heart, and the remaining points they have lost as dark grey hearts.</td><td>The player should know how much health they have so they know to be cautious if it is low. The player can heal by using a healing or regeneration power-up.</td><td><ul><li></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>When a player uses the TNT power-up, place a piece of TNT behind them and update the map for all players.</td><td>TNT is more intended to help a player retain or extend their lead over other players. It is to be used as a defensive weapon to stop other players getting ahead of them than to attack and displace other players. TNT will deal a lot of damage to players that come in close range of it.</td><td><ul><li></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Continually check for players coming in range of TNT.</td><td>Any player within a block's range of TNT will cause it to activate, doing a lot of damage. TNT is supposed to make the game especially challenging as players must be careful moving past it.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>When a player uses the blindness power-up, broadcast to all other players to display a black rectangle covering the screen, which fades out over a period of 10 seconds.</td><td>Blindness will be intended to cause annoyance to the other players. They will be unable to see clearly for 10 seconds, which could affect their awareness of obstacles such as TNT and monster armies.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>When a player uses the regeneration power-up, increase health points by 1 every second for 10 seconds.</td><td>Requiring the player get a potion to restore health makes the game more challenging as the player will have to be more careful losing health as the only means to get it back is rare. Regeneration allows restoration of up to 10 health points, which can be useful if a player is running very low.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>When a player uses the healing power-up, increase health points by 3 instantly.</td><td>If the player is in urgent need of health and cannot wait for a few seconds, getting 3 health points back instantly can be useful.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>If the player uses any healing-related power-ups but reaches/already has 10 health points, do not increase any further.</td><td>The player is not supposed to have more than 10 health points, the purpose of potions is to help them get back up to the maximum, not above it.</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Accounts system

<table><thead><tr><th width="109">Ref. No.</th><th width="208">Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>11</td><td>Validate registration details to make sure the password is strong enough and the username is not already in use.</td><td>A strong password is needed to stop it from being easily guessed or cracked, and the username must be unique to distinguish the account from others.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>Store unique numeric ID in cookie.</td><td>SQL databases allow for a unique, numeric ID known as a "primary key" to be automatically generated when adding a new entry. This will be stored in a cookie after the player logs in to identify them.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>Use bcrypt to encrypt user passwords in SQL table.</td><td>Storing a password in plaintext is bad security practice and it is recommended to use a hashing algorithm that cannot be reversed. I have decided on using the bcrypt algorithm, which has been implemented in Node.js.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#bcrypt">bcrypt</a></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Multiplayer

<table><thead><tr><th width="107">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>14</td><td>Distinguish between multiplayer sessions through unique codes.</td><td>When playing on a multiplayer session, any action of a player, for example movement, will be broadcast to other clients connected to that session. A unique code for each game will prevent the back-end becoming confused between sessions.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#multiplayer">Multiplayer</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>Transfer of power if the session host quits.</td><td>When a player joins a session, the time they joined at will be recorded and stored in the server. If the host quits the game while it is still waiting, the role of host will be transferred to the next player who joined earliest.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#multiplayer">Multiplayer</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>Join session with unique code.</td><td>Before the session host formally starts the game, up to three other players can join by entering the unique code.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#multiplayer">Multiplayer</a></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Leaderboard

<table><thead><tr><th width="107">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>17</td><td>Check the time taken to finish the game and compare it to the player's current record.</td><td>The game must first determine if the player's time taken is less than their current record before updating it in the database.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#leaderboard">Leaderboard</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>18</td><td>Obtain top 50 time records and their correspondent usernames from the leaderboard.</td><td>It would take too much time to allow the player to navigate through the leaderboard beyond a certain amount of entries, and 50 seems like a reasonable amount. Additionally, the record and position of the player logged in should be displayed at the top of the screen so they can see it even if they are not in the top 50.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#leaderboard">Leaderboard</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>Update player's record in leaderboard.</td><td>The records will be stored in a separate table of a SQLite database alongside their usernames. If the player's time is shorter than their record, it should be replaced in the database.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#leaderboard">Leaderboard</a></li><li><a href="1.4b-computational-methods.md#thinking-ahead">Thinking Ahead</a></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Non-functional

<table><thead><tr><th width="107">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>20</td><td>Adhere to PEGI 7 rating.</td><td>My game should not include any content that is unsuitable for an audience of age 7 and above.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md#age-rating-for-my-game">Age rating for my game</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>Refuse the player access to multiplayer and leaderboard functionality if they decide not to login.</td><td>Only registered users will be able to play multiplayer or have their score saved to the leaderboard, so if the player decides against logging in, the relevant buttons should not appear on the title screen.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#title-screen">Title screen</a></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
