# 2.2.21 Cycle 21: Level leaderboard

## Design

In this cycle, I will be writing the code for the leaderboard that shows after all players have completed a race. It will display each player's position in that race, how many points they gained, and their overall standing position. After ten seconds, any player can click a button to move onto the next level.

### Objectives

* [x] Leaderboard displays after each level showing players ordered by when they finished.
* [x] After five seconds game goes onto the next level.
* [x] Player gets points based on how they did.

### Usability Features

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="95">Test</th><th width="158">Instructions</th><th width="171">What I expect</th><th width="174">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>After all players finish a level, display leaderboard.</td><td>Leaderboard shows with players ranked by how they finished.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>After five seconds of the leaderboard go onto the next level.</td><td>Next level loads after five seconds of being on the leaderboard.</td><td>Level loads but there are two cars for each player and stopwatch increases by 2 every second.</td><td>Fail</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Remove all Socket.IO listeners at the start of level scene.</td><td>Next level loads after five seconds of being on the leaderboard.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Add to player's points based on how well they did.</td><td>The player's points increases depending on how well they did.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

