# 2.2.18 Cycle 18: Potion effects

## Design

In this cycle I will be implementing the effects of potion power-ups. These will be speed, regeneration, and healing. Unlike fireball and TNT, these effects are intended to help the player rather than harm the other players.

The speed potion will increase the maximum speed at which the player can accelerate to by 50% which will last 10 seconds and can help them catch up with or overtake their opponents. On the other hand, the regeneration and healing potions are intended to help the player in scenarios of low health, with regeneration restoring 1 health point a second over 10 seconds and healing instantly restoring 3 health.

### Objectives

* [x] Potion of speed increases maximum speed for 10 seconds.
* [x] Potion of healing restores 3 health points instantly.
* [x] Potion of regeneration restores 1 health point every second for 10 seconds.

### Usability Features

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="95">Test</th><th width="158">Instructions</th><th width="171">What I expect</th><th width="174">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>If the player activates speed potion, increase max speed for 10 seconds.</td><td>Player can go faster for 10 seconds after activating speed.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>If the player activates healing potion, restore 3 health points.</td><td>Player gets 3 health points after activating healing.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>If the player activates regeneration potion, restore 1 health a second for 10 seconds.</td><td>Player gets 1 health point a second for 10 seconds after activating regeneration.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/RdDz7x58Gu4" %}
Test 1: Speed potion increases maximum speed for 10 seconds
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/s6jvC9dlTiU" %}
Test 2: Healing potion restores 3 health points
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/bWyDZghduSY" %}
Test 3: Regeneration potion restores 1 health point a second for 10 seconds
{% endembed %}
