# 2.2.10 Cycle 10: Race countdown

## Design

In this cycle, I will be developing the countdown which is displayed on the player's screen. It will go down from 3 and the player will not be able to move their car while it is still in action. After the countdown is finished, a custom event will be broadcasted which will enable the keyboard controls used to move the car. This will involve modifications to the mechanics of the car sprite so the key listeners are only activated after receiving the event.

### Objectives

* [x] Display large text in the centre of the screen to count down.
* [x] Count down from 3, updating the text.
* [x] When the count down finishes, update the text to say "GO!"
* [x] When the count down finishes, start listening for WSAD controls to move/turn car.

### Usability Features

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="95">Test</th><th width="158">Instructions</th><th width="171">What I expect</th><th width="174">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Countdown from 3 seconds to 0, displaying the seconds value or "GO!" if the seconds is 0 in the centre of the screen.</td><td>When I start the game, a countdown from 3 will begin in large text in the middle of the screen.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Once countdown is finished dispatch custom "go" event. On this event, output message to browser console for now.</td><td>"GO!" outputted to browser console once countdown is finished.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Start listening for key presses and releases for car movement only after the "go" event has been dispatched.</td><td>I will not be able to move my car until the countdown is finished.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/wwnWbWnRkRY" %}
Test 1: Countdown from 3 when game starts
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/xp8e_0IUNvA" %}
Test 2: "GO!" outputted to console after receiving custom event
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/YPC1guPvCg0" %}
Test 3: Player cannot move car until countdown is finished
{% endembed %}
