# 2.2.19 Cycle 19: Monster Army and behaviour

## Design

In this cycle, I will be writing the code for the Monster Army power-up.&#x20;

### Objectives

* [ ] Monster Army power-up spawns 3-5 random types of monster.
* [x] Zombies chase after players and hit them, inflicting 1 point of damage.
* [ ] Skeletons shoot arrows at the players, inflicting 2 points per hit.
* [ ] Creepers explode when a player is close, inflicting 4 points.
* [ ] Monsters do not pursue the player that spawned them.
* [x] Monsters disappear after 30 seconds of being spawned.

### Usability Features

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

{% code title="sprites/zombie.js" %}
```
func Zombie(x, y, master):
    return add({
        sprite("zombie"),
        pos(x, y),
        
    })
```
{% endcode %}

##

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="95">Test</th><th width="158">Instructions</th><th width="171">What I expect</th><th width="174">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Zombie detects closest player in range and chases and hits them.</td><td>The zombie chases the player and does 1 point of damage each hit.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Skeleton detects closest player in range and shoots arrows at them.</td><td>The skeleton shoots arrows at the player and each arrow does 2 points of damage per hit.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Creeper detects closest player in range and runs up to them and explodes.</td><td>The creeper chases the player and explodes when they come close.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>After activating monster army power-up, summon up to 5 monsters.</td><td>Monsters attack other players for 30 seconds before disappearing.</td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/wZKRk2Z7frw" %}
Test 1: Zombie chases and hits player
{% endembed %}

