# 2.2.16 Cycle 16: Fireball

## Design

In this cycle, I will be writing the code for the fireball power-up. The purpose of this will be to attack nearby players and get ahead of them. On hitting a player, the fireball will explode which deducts 4 health points from the player and temporarily stops their car from moving.

The player will be able to activate their power-up by pressing the shift key. After this, for the fireball, they can click anywhere on the screen to choose where to aim. The fireball will move quickly in the direction. If it does not hit any players for 20 blocks, it will disappear to prevent lag.

### Objectives

* [x] Activate power-up on pressing shift.
* [x] Display split controls that follow the mouse around the screen.
* [x] Draw fireball near the player.
* [x] Continually move the fireball at high speed towards the target.
* [x] If the fireball hits a player that is not its sender, explode.
* [x] Any player caught in an explosion takes 4 health points damage.

### Usability Features

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="95">Test</th><th width="158">Instructions</th><th width="171">What I expect</th><th width="174">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>When activating fireball, add crosshair following mouse.</td><td>Crosshair follows the mouse when the player activates the fireball power-up.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>If the player clicks on the screen, shoot the fireball in the direction.</td><td>Fireball moves towards where the player clicked.</td><td>Player can shoot an infinite amount of fireballs after activating one.</td><td>Fail</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Only shoot if a fireball has not already been shot.</td><td>Player cannot shoot more fireballs until they get another power-up.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pas</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>If the fireball hits a player, explode. Deduct 4 health points from that player.</td><td>Fireball explodes when hitting a player and they lose 4 health points.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/ubgjQT0KNqM" %}
Test 1: Crosshair follows mouse on activating fireball
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/5EFMJk8XKyw" %}
Test 2: Infinite fireballs after activating power-up
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/03MEG1Y9Rqk" %}
Test 3: Only one fireball can be shot per power-up
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/udMbO3V1vcc" %}
Test 4: Fireballs explode when they hit a player and deal 4 points of damage
{% endembed %}
