# 2.2.15 Cycle 15: Getting powerups from chest

## Design

In this cycle, I will be writing the code to detect when the player collides with a chest. I will take into account factors such as the player's position in the race implemented in [Cycle 13](2.2.13-cycle-13.md) and the amount of health the player has setup in [Cycle 14](2.2.15-cycle-14.md). This means for example if the player is far behind they are more likely to get a speed potion and if they are low health they are more likely to get a regeneration or healing potion.

### Objectives

* [ ] When a player collides with the chest, delete the chest from the map.
* [ ] Pick a random power-up from a list.
* [ ] Certain factors increase the likelihood of certain power-ups being selected.
* [ ] Display the power-up inside a square container in the left of the screen.

### Usability Features

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="95">Test</th><th width="158">Instructions</th><th width="171">What I expect</th><th width="174">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>On player collision with chest, delete chest from world.</td><td>When the player collides with the chest, it disappears for all players.</td><td>Chests disappear but with a lot of lag.</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Do not delete the chest if the index is -1.</td><td>No lag when the player collides with a chest.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Random select power-up with certain conditions.</td><td>Player given power-up after colliding with chest.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/vYY3DCil-lM" %}
Test 1: Chest disappears upon player collision but there is lag
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/KPSoDwQoSvU" %}
Test 2: Chest disappears upon player collision, no more lag
{% endembed %}

