# 2.2.17 Cycle 17: TNT

## Design

In this cycle I will be writing the code for the TNT power-up. The purpose for this is to allow a player to secure their lead over players behind them. When the player activates the power-up, a block of TNT will be placed a few blocks behind the player and either explode in five seconds or explode when it hits another player.&#x20;

The TNT explosion will be larger than the fireball explosion in [Cycle 16](2.2.16-cycle-16.md) and deal 8 points of damage. This means it is very important for players to avoid the TNT or subsequent explosions.

### Objectives

* [x] Throw TNT behind the player activating it.
* [x] If a player comes close to the TNT, explode it.
* [x] Explode TNT after three seconds if it hasn't already.
* [x] Any players caught in the explosion lose 8 health points.

### Usability Features

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
```

## Development

### Outcome



### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="95">Test</th><th width="158">Instructions</th><th width="171">What I expect</th><th width="174">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Throw TNT behind the player on activating power-up.</td><td>TNT block thrown a few blocks behind the player when activating power-up.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>If a player comes close to TNT, explode.</td><td>TNT explodes when a player comes close to it.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>If no player comes close to the TNT in three seconds.</td><td>TNT explodes after three seconds if not already done so.</td><td>As expected</td><td>Pass</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/S25V5vx9Fag" %}
Test 1: TNT is thrown behind player when they activate power-up.
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/Mg1BQfjoBCU" %}
Test 2: TNT explodes when a player comes close to it
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/c7tUhU-QJ7A" %}
Test 3: TNT explodes after three seconds if it hasn't already done so
{% endembed %}
